Motivation
----------
Reverse-engineering how biological neural circuits process information is key to
understanding human brain function, developing effective therapies for
psychiatric and neurological disease, and designing powerful new computer
architectures that can replicate the formidable information processing
capabilities of biological brains. To achieve this goal, we must focus on a model
organism capable of complex behavioral and information processing tasks whose
brain's structure is within reach of current computational technology and whose
neural activity can be experimentally accessed.

An Unprecedented Opportunity 
---------------------------- 
The fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster is capable of a range of complex
nonreactive behaviors driven by multiple sensory modalities. Remarkably, these
behaviors are governed by a brain comprising only ~ 10^5 neurons! An extensive
toolbox of powerful genetic manipulation techniques developed through years of
fruit fly research enables the visualization of the fly's neural circuitry and
analysis of how its structure relates to the fly's behavior. This toolbox has
enabled researchers to characterize the fly's sensory mechanisms and shed light
on the structure of its brain connectivity map, or connectome. Recent work has
revealed that the fly's connectome comprises 40 unique modular subdivisions
called \textit{local processing units} (LPUs). Almost all of these modules have
been found to correspond to anatomical regions of the fly brain associated with
specific functional subsystems such as sensation and locomotion. This suggests
that LPUs can regarded as the functional building blocks of the fly brain.

The computational tractability and genetic accessibility of the fly brain have
acquired increased importance in light of ongoing advances in parallel computing
and electrophysiological techniques. Graphics Processing Units (GPUs) are a
powerful and affordable commodity parallel computing technology whose steady
improvement promises the computational power needed to test increasingly
realistic neural circuit models of the scale of the fly brain. While the fly's
tiny size has made the recording of neural activity from its brain challenging,
innovative technologies developed at the Bionet Group and elsewhere have made it
possible to contemplate the obtaining of simultaneous recording from multiple
neurons in the fly brain. Neuroscientists therefore have an unprecedented
opportunity to leverage these developments to build powerful new models of the
fly brain that are informed by hitherto inaccessible knowledge regarding its
structure and function. 

An Open Scalable Platform for Fruit Fly Brain Emulation
-------------------------------------------------------
The Neurokernel project aims to build an open software platform that can
scalably leverage the power of multiple GPUs to emulate the entire fly brain. A
key feature of the platform is its support for integrating models of LPUs into
models of entire functional subsystems. Neurokernel defines a mandatory module
interface for the communication of neuron state data between LPU model
implementations. Connectivity patterns between any two LPUs are expressed
independently both of other inter-LPU connectivity patterns and the internal
connectivity of the LPUs themselves. Enforced LPU interoperability and the
partitioning of the fly connectome into connections responsible for distributing
data between processing modules and connections that are part of those modules
enables individual LPU models or connectivity patterns to be improved or
replaced without modification of other parts of a brain emulation. This design
facilitates the collaborative development of whole-brain emulations by enabling
the immediate interconnection of independently developed LPU models with
compatible interfaces. Neurokernel's support for LPU model integration also
enables exploration of brain functions that cannot be exclusively attributed to
individual LPUs or brain subsystems.

A major goal of Neurokernel is to enable fly brain models to be scaled up in
computational complexity without necessitating their reimplementation. To this
end, Neurokernel will provide APIs that expose the components required to
implement and interconnect LPU models while abstracting away the underlying
GPU-dependent code that implements them; this will also enable Neurokernel-based
emulations to benefit from future improvements in GPU technology. Neurokernel
will also provide a GPU resource management infrastructure that will enable
brain emulations to take advantage of multiple GPUs depending upon their
availability.

Help Build a Fly Brain!
-----------------------
Building an accurate emulation of the fly brain is an interdisciplinary effort
that requires data, algorithms, and insight from (but not limited to) the fields
of neuroscience, computer science, and systems engineering. Researchers
interested in working towards this goal are invited to join the Neurokernel
project. The platform software is developed in Python (a powerful, high-level
language that enjoys wide popularity in the computational neuroscience
community) and CUDA (NVIDIA's C language extension for GPU programming). All
design specifications, documentation, and code are open-source and publicly
hosted on GitHub.
